how to build a garden shed for this
project you'll need two people and it
should take you about three hours to
complete
you'll also need the following tools a
hammer a drill step ladders a spirit
level and a sharp craft knife prepare a
concrete or slab base for your shed
which is at least 50 millimeters larger
than the footprint of your shed before
you start check through your
instructions and familiarize yourself
with all the shed components firstly if
the doors of your shed are not pre hung
put the door end on the ground face
upwards locate the doors and fix them
with the hinges and screws provided
making sure the barrels of the hinge are
on the outside face now move your shed
floor on to the center of the base
pre-drill three pilot holes at the top
middle and bottom through the two side
frames of each of the side panels lift
the back panel of the shed into place
and offer up one side panel to meet it
screw these two panels together through
the pilot holes in the framing and fix
with 50 millimeter countersunk screws
provided don't fix them to the floor
just yet prop these two sections up so
that they'll stand on their own
temporarily and then attach the
remaining sections in the same way once
all four sides of the shed are in place
pre-drill holes through the bottom
frames right through to the floor
bearers which run along the full length
of the shed fix the shed framework to
the base using 50 millimeter screws now
you're ready to start on the roof take
one roof section and attach a baton with
evenly spaced nails there may be
different lengths of roof battens so
check the instructions and make sure you
select the right one attach the second
batten to the other side ensuring it's
offset from the
edge this distance may vary depending on
the size of the shed being built check
the instructions to find out the exact
distance now repeat this process with
the other roof panel take the two
shorter roof battens and fix the Zed
brackets to each end with 35 millimeter
screws take these battens and fix them
to each gable end about halfway between
the ridge and eaves checking the exact
location in the instructions take one of
the roof sections and lift it into place
locating the offset batten into the
notches in the top of each gable end fix
them to the sides and gable ends with 30
millimeter nails lift the second roof
panel into place and fix it in exactly
the same way
roll out the roofing felt and cut it
into three equal lengths using a sharp
craft knife lay the first piece along
one of the roof sections with an equal
overhang at both ends and about 40
millimeters overlap at the eaves put a
small tack through the felt at the top
to hold it in place secure the felt
along the eaves with felt tacks at about
150 millimeter intervals do the same on
the other side of the roof now lay the
third length along the ridge of the shed
with equal overlaps of the gable and on
each side fix it into place over the top
of the other two strips with the tacks
tidy up the corners around the edge by
folding and tacking where necessary make
a small slit in the felt at the apex and
fold down and tack on either side do the
same at the back of the shed attach the
bargeboards to each gable end with the
nails provided trim off any excess felt
attach the corner cover strips into
place with the nails provided now you
can put the window in take the plastic
Zee strip and put it in place on the
ledge of the window take the window
glazing and stall
played it into position fix the beading
around the window using 25 millimeter
glazing pins lightly score around the
window and remove the protective film
from the glazing finally fix the door
fastener or bolt for the door your shed
is now complete
you